Waf documentation (#27)
opencredo/terraform-provider-fastly: website/docs/d/waf_rules.html.markdown

}
```

Usage with exclude filter:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "owasp_with_exclusions" {
  publishers = ["owasp"]
  exclude_modsec_rule_ids = [1010090]
}
```

Usage without filters:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "all" {
  // This will retrieve the entire rule list available on the server at the time.
}
```

Usage with WAF configuration resource:

```hcl
variable "type_status" {
  type = map(string)
  default = {
    score     = "score"
    threshold = "log"
    strict    = "log"
  }
}

resource "fastly_service_v1" "demo" {
  name = "demofastly"

  domain {
    name    = "example.com"
    comment = "demo"
  }

  backend {
    address = "127.0.0.1"
    name    = "origin1"
    port    = 80
  }

  condition {
    name      = "Waf_Prefetch"
    type      = "PREFETCH"
    statement = "req.backend.is_origin"
  }

  # this condition will always be false
  # adding it to the response object created below
  # prevents Fastly from returning a 403 on all of your traffic
  condition {
    name      = "WAF_always_false"
    statement = "false"
    type      = "REQUEST"
  }

  response_object {
    name     = "WAF_Response"
    status   = "403"
    response = "Forbidden"

>     content  = "content"

Reviewer: Add `content_type` and make `content` more realistic - just an "<html><body>something</body></html>" is good enough.

---
layout: "fastly"
page_title: "Fastly: fastly_waf_rules"
sidebar_current: "docs-fastly-datasource-waf_rules"
description: |-
  Get information on Fastly WAF rules.
---

-> **Note:** This data source is only available from x.x.x of the Fastly terraform provider.

# fastly_waf_rules

Use this data source to get the [WAF rules][1] of Fastly. A set of third-party rules from the OWASP Core Ruleset, commercial sources, and open source, in addition to Fastly-generated rules.

> They offer protection from injection attacks and cross site scripting amongst other key application-layer attacks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They offer protection from injection attacks and cross site scripting amongst other key application-layer attacks.
```

## Example Usage

Usage with publishers Filter:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "owasp" {
  publishers = ["owasp"]
}
```

Usage with tags filter:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "tag" {
  tags = ["language-html", "language-jsp"]
}
```

Usage with exclude filter:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "owasp_with_exclusions" {
  publishers = ["owasp"]
  exclude_modsec_rule_ids = [1010090]
}
```

Usage without filters:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "all" {

>   // This will retrieve the entire rule list available on the server at the time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // This will retrieve the entire list of rules available from the API at the time.
```

}
```

Usage with WAF configuration resource:

```hcl
variable "type_status" {
  type = map(string)
  default = {
    score     = "score"
    threshold = "log"
    strict    = "log"
  }
}

resource "fastly_service_v1" "demo" {
  name = "demofastly"

  domain {
    name    = "example.com"
    comment = "demo"
  }

  backend {
    address = "127.0.0.1"
    name    = "origin1"
    port    = 80
  }

  condition {
    name      = "WAF_Prefetch"
    type      = "PREFETCH"
    statement = "req.backend.is_origin"
  }

>   # this condition will always be false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # This condition will always be false
```

  # adding it to the response object created below

>   # prevents Fastly from returning a 403 on all of your traffic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # prevents Fastly from returning a 403 on all of your traffic.
```

  condition {
    name      = "WAF_always_false"
    statement = "false"
    type      = "REQUEST"
  }

  response_object {
    name              = "WAF_Response"
    status            = "403"
    response          = "Forbidden"
    content_type      = "text/html"

>     content           = "<html><body>something</body></html>"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    content           = "<html><body>Forbidden</body></html>"
```

    request_condition = "WAF_always_false"
  }

  waf {
    prefetch_condition = "WAF_Prefetch"
    response_object    = "WAF_Response"
  }

  force_destroy = true
}

data "fastly_waf_rules" "owasp" {
  publishers = ["owasp"]
}

resource "fastly_service_waf_configuration_v1" "waf" {
  waf_id                          = fastly_service_v1.demo.waf[0].waf_id
  http_violation_score_threshold  = 100

  dynamic "rule" {
    for_each = data.fastly_waf_rules.owasp.rules
    content {
      modsec_rule_id = rule.value.modsec_rule_id
      revision       = rule.value.latest_revision_number
      status         = lookup(var.type_status, rule.value.type, "log")
    }
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

> ~> **Warning:** The data source's filters are applied using an **AND** boolean operator, so depending on the combination of those, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
~> **Warning:** The data source's filters are applied using an **AND** boolean operator, so depending on the combination of filters, 
```

> they may become mutually exclusive.

Reviewer 2: Why is this on a new line?

Author: Probably some wrong formatting, I don't think it needs to be a new line, so it's removed

---
layout: "fastly"
page_title: "Fastly: fastly_waf_rules"
sidebar_current: "docs-fastly-datasource-waf_rules"
description: |-
  Get information on Fastly WAF rules.
---

-> **Note:** This data source is only available from x.x.x of the Fastly terraform provider.

# fastly_waf_rules

> Use this data source to get the [WAF rules][1] of Fastly.

Reviewer: A little more here would be nice.  For example, I am thinking:

- Are these WAF rules immutable or do they change?
- Are they specific to me/service/account, or is it the same set of rules for everyone?
- Are the rules grouped or organised in any other entity (like tags)
- What is a WAF rule (perhaps the link is good enough to satisfy this but a single line of explanation would be nice)
- Where do the rules come from?

Author: I have added a short and general description of WAF rules. I don't think we should go into in here for the reason of documentation duplication, I would much prefer that the link takes the user to the comprehensive documentation.

## Example Usage

Usage with publishers Filter:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "owasp" {
  publishers = ["owasp"]
}
```

Usage with tags filter:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "tag" {
  tags = ["language-html", "language-jsp"]
}
```

Usage with exclude filter:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "owasp_with_exclusions" {
  publishers = ["owasp"]
  exclude_modsec_rule_ids = [1010090]
}
```

Usage without filters:

```hcl
data "fastly_waf_rules" "all" {
  // This will retrieve the entire rule list available on the server at the time.
}
```

## Argument Reference

~> **Warning:** The data source's filters are applied using an **AND** boolean operator, so depending on the combination of those, 
they may become mutually exclusive.

* `publishers` - Inclusion filter by WAF rule's publishers.

> * `tags` - Inclusion filter by WAF rule's tags.

Reviewer: Is there a reference of available publishers and tags?

Reviewer 3: to get the tags, here's the api endpoint: https://docs.fastly.com/api/ngwaf#ngwaf_tags_ee320475c2620afee7dbda117285ddf4

publishers should just be owasp, fastly, and trustwave

Author: I can add this link to the tags, but I don't think the list of publishers should be documented here as they may change in the future. I'll ask Bernabas if there is documentation for this.

Reviewer 4: @triblondon  there is no official fastly documentation that lists all possible tags and publishers.  We may have an action to complement this documentation in a new interaction.

* `exclude_modsec_rule_ids` - Exclusion filter by WAF rule's ModSecurity ID.

## Attribute Reference

> * `rules` - The Web Application Firewall's active rules.

Reviewer 3: I'm not entirely sure what this is referencing? I believe it's looking at this, but that wasn't readily apparent:

```
      modsec_rule_id = rule.value.modsec_rule_id
      revision       = rule.value.latest_revision_number
      status         = lookup(var.type_status, rule.value.type, "log")
```

Is it possible to give an example on this page for reference? Or to define these terms where we're using them?

Author: The data source rules attribute is defined right after this line 
`The `rules` block supports:

* `modsec_rule_id` - The rule's modsecurity ID.
* `latest_revision_number` - The rule's latest revision.
* `type` - The rule's type.`

I have changed the description as "active rules" is not technically correct, they only become active when they are referenced on the WAF configuration resource

Reviewer 3: Ah! I understand that bit, but it seems like a non sequitur; there's not an example of these attributes on this page. It wasn't until I checked the service_waf_configuration_v1.html.markdown that I understood what this was describing. My question on this one is one of placement. Does this definition fit better in the other document where we provide an example of using these attributes? Does that make sense?

Author: Ah, I get it now. So you mean to have the WAF rules data source's attributes documented on the WAF configuration resource page instead? Although I see it could be useful to have this info on the other page, this would differ from Terraform documentation convention and for people used to look at Terraform docs could be confusing. We could have an example of these attributes on this page if that would make things clearer?

Reviewer 3: I think that would be magnificent. Would you mind?

Author: Sure thing, done

The `rules` block supports:

* `modsec_rule_id` - The rule's modsecurity ID.
* `latest_revision_number` - The rule's latest revision.
* `type` - The rule's type.

> [1]: https://docs.fastly.com/en/guides/fastly-waf-rule-set-updates-maintenance

Reviewer 3: This is a link for the old configuration set page, which shouldn't be relevant to the API we're using in Terraform. I can't find the link to the NG API, maybe Bernabas has a link?

Reviewer 3: I think I found the link you're referencing? https://docs.fastly.com/api/ngwaf#ngwaf_rules

Author: Update thanks. Bernabas did not have it when I asked him last week
